# Hector Pacheco's Portfolio

## Favorite CPSC 120L Labs
Lab 2, part 1
Lab 2 was an easy assignment, but it was one of my favorite labs because we gained hands-on experience with an essential everyday tool: GitHub. GitHub is widely used by software engineers as a code repository, version control system, and collaboration tool. Gaining these skills is vital for anyone like me who is pursuing a career as a software engineer. Knowing how to host code on the web, track project versions and bugs, and collaborate effectively is incredibly important. Although we only scratched the surface of GitHub, I’m grateful that this topic was covered in our class. Additionally, I really enjoyed this lab assignment because we learned how to get user input which is vital to create any interact website or application. 

Lab 6, part 1 & 2
Another one of my favorite lab assignments was Lab 6. Coming from a JavaScript background, which primarily supports Arrays and Objects, I found learning about Vectors in C++ very interesting. While Vectors are a more advanced data type, they were easier to understand because they are conceptually similar to Arrays. Both store values in a linear way, and their elements can be accessed in the same way using bracket (square) notation. Additionally, I enjoyed learning how to implement pure functions in C++ within the blackjack_functions These functions rely solely on their input to produce a predictable result, making them easier to maintain, debug, and modify. This is primarily because they are concise and declarative in nature.

Lab 8,  part 1
Lastly, Lab 8 was another one of my favorite assignments. I really enjoyed this lab because, as I mentioned, I come from a JavaScript background. While loops in C++ and JavaScript are conceptually similar, learning how to implement them in C++ was exciting for me. During the lab, I noticed that the range-based for loop in C++ is similar to the for…of  loop in JavaScript because both are used to iterate over the values in a collection directly. For example, they both allow you to access each element in an array or vector without needing to manually handle the index. I’m also excited to explore how to implement higher-order functions like map, filter, and reduce in C++.
